Polishing of the HashML-DSA collision risk text (#131)
lamps-wg/dilithium-certificates: draft-ietf-lamps-dilithium-certificates.md

the signer and has no impact on the verifier or network protocol.

The security reason for disallowing HashML-DSA is that the design of the
ML-DSA algorithm provides enhanced resistance against collision attacks,
compared with HashML-DSA or conventional RSA or ECDSA signature algorithms.

> Specifically, ML-DSA prepends the hash of the public key `tr`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifically, ML-DSA prepends the SHAKE256 hash of the public key `tr`
```

the signer and has no impact on the verifier or network protocol.

The security reason for disallowing HashML-DSA is that the design of the
ML-DSA algorithm provides enhanced resistance against collision attacks,
compared with HashML-DSA or conventional RSA or ECDSA signature algorithms.
Specifically, ML-DSA prepends the SHAKE256 hash of the public key `tr`
to the message to-be-signed prior to hashing, as described in
line 6 of Algorithm 7 of {{FIPS204}}. This means that in the unlikely
discovery of a collision attack against the SHA-3 family, an attacker
would have to perform a public-key-specific collision search in order
to find message pairs such that `H(tr || m1) = H(tr || m2)` since a
direct hash collision `H(m1) = H(m2)` will not suffice.
HashML-DSA removes this enhanced security property.

> In spite of its lack of targeted collision protection, the practical

Author: @jakemas , @bwesterb , @seanturner , please check the last 2-3 sentences that start 
 
> In spite of its lack of targeted collision protection, the practical 

and approve if you don't object.

Reviewer 2: So, I'm not so sure about this one. Is the SHA-1 hash you referring to the AKI value? If that's the case, then it's not always SHA-1; see [RFC 7093](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc7093/).

Author: I like it. I rephrased to "Even when it is SHA-1." Looks good.

security risk of using HashML-DSA in X.509 signatures would be
immaterial. That is because a hash of the issuing CA's public key
is already included in the Authority Key Identifier (AKI) extension which
is signed as part of the tbsCertificate structure.

> Although it is a SHA-1 hash, general second pre-images against

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even if it is a SHA-1 hash, general second pre-images against
```

Reviewer 2: I think this might address my concern that it's not always SHA-1.

> the AKI hash of existing issuing CAs would be impractical. 

Reviewer: `the AKI hash of existing issuing CAs would be impractical. ` there is a trailing whitespace on this line which is failing lint CI
